# Qwil Front-End Interview Take Home Challenge

Thank you for applying to Qwil. We'd like you to write a component that can be used in a chat application. The component displays a list of chats that can be filtered based on attributes of the chat. In the resources folder you can find a sample UI - the chatlist component is highlighted in red.

This repo includes a base application generated by create-react-app. We have used TypeScript but you are welcome to use a plain JavaScript app if you prefer. Feel free to fork this repo for your submission.

## Functional Requirements

1. The solution should be delivered as an app runnable in the browser
2. The component displays a list of chats
3. For each chat, the component should display:
   - The name of the chat,
   - The author of the last message in the chat,
   - The avatar of the last sender of the chat,
   - The time the last message was received,
   - The first line of the last message.
4. The component must allow the user to filter their chats between active and archived chats
5. The component must allow the user to select a specific chat and indicate this selected state in the UI.
6. The component must have a hover state (can be the same as the selected state)

You are free to use whatever 3rd party libs you like and adopt any CSS methodology to manage styling.

## Testing

We would like you to write some tests but you are free to decide what functionality you think it is worth testing,

## API

In this repo, we have used `json-server` which can be used to construct a simple REST API. You will need to first globally install `json-server` and the command, `yarn api` will spin up a REST API on port 3001.

Available endpoints are:

- /GET chats which returns a list of chats
- /GET avatars which returns a list of avatars.
- /GET avatars/${avatarId} returns an avatar object including a URL.

## Solution

### Steps to run the code
- **Install dependencies::** yarn install
- **Run code::** npm start
- **Run code and start API::** npm run startWithAPI
- **API::** yarn api
- **Unit test::** npm run test:units
- **e2e test::** num run test:e2e

### User Flow 1
- on load shows Home page having logo and a toggle icon
- click on the toggle icon, should see a list of chats with few basic details for each chat
- you should see a visual indication (a background color change) when you hover over a chat 
- with just chat list opened, if you click on toggle icon, you should go back to home page 

### User Flow 2
- click on a chat item in the chat list, you should see another section opening up where for now just the chat title is displayed
- please note the background color change to denote the chat selected state
- new chat icon disabled for now
- to filter the chat list, click on either "Active" or "Archived".
- the chat list should be filtered.
- you should not see the previous chat selected state anymore as the data changed
- but in the chat details, the last selected chat title will stay

### User Flow 3
- with chat list and details opened, if you now click on the toggle icon, chat list should disappear but the user will be able to view the chat details in full screen. 
- before clicking on toggle icon, if any chat was selected, that state will still be there when the chat list is again opened which you click on the toggle icon again.
- before clicking on toggle icon, if any the chat list was filtered by either "Active" or "Archived", that filter data will be lost when you re-open the chat list by clicking on the toggle icon. [This particular behaviour may be different based on personal preference, so may be in future can hold filter state when re-opening the chat list by clicking on toggle icon]


### src Directory Tree
````
.
├── App.css
├── App.tsx
├── UI
│   ├── Button.tsx
│   ├── Card.tsx
│   ├── Dropdown.tsx
│   └── List.tsx
├── assets
│   ├── dummy-test-data.tsx
│   └── qwill-messenger-logo.png
├── components
│   ├── chat
│   │   ├── Chat-Actions
│   │   │   ├── Chat-Actions.module.css
│   │   │   ├── Chat-Actions.test.tsx
│   │   │   └── Chat-Actions.tsx
│   │   ├── Chat-Container
│   │   │   ├── Chat-Container.module.css
│   │   │   ├── Chat-Container.test.tsx
│   │   │   └── Chat-Container.tsx
│   │   ├── Chat-Details
│   │   │   ├── Chat-Details.test.tsx
│   │   │   └── Chat-Details.tsx
│   │   └── Chat-List
│   │       ├── Chat-List.module.css
│   │       ├── Chat-List.test.tsx
│   │       └── Chat-List.tsx
│   └── shared
│       └── Nav.tsx
├── constants
│   └── constants.tsx
├── index.css
├── index.tsx
├── models
│   ├── avatar.model.tsx
│   ├── chat-list-context.model.tsx
│   ├── chat.model.tsx
│   └── message.model.tsx
├── react-app-env.d.ts
├── reportWebVitals.ts
├── services
│   └── Chat-service.tsx
├── setupTests.ts
├── store
│   └── Chat-List-context.tsx
└── utils
└── date-formatter.tsx

